WhatsApp Partner Integration EA - MERGE 11/1 (#4236)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/create.md

---
nav_title: Creating a WhatsApp message
article_title: Creating a WhatsApp message
page_order: 5
description: "This reference article covers the steps involved in building out and creating a WhatsApp message."
page_type: reference
tool:
  - Campaigns
channel:
  - WhatsApp
hidden: true
---

# Creating a WhatsApp message

> WhatsApp campaigns are great for directly reaching and programmatically conversing with your customers. You can use Liquid and other dynamic content to create a personal experience with your users and create an environment that fosters and enhances an unobtrusive user experience with your brand. 

{% alert important %}
Support for the WhatsApp channel is currently in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you are interested in participating in the early access.
{% endalert %}

> ## Step 1: Choose where to build your message

Reviewer: I feel like we need a prerequisites section before this that tells them they need to go through the WhatsApp Overview page before proceeding since that contains setup steps.

Author: Good call!

If all of the messages in your campaign are similar or have the same content, compose your message before adding additional variants. You can then choose **Copy from Variant** from the **Add Variant** dropdown.
{% endalert %}

{% endtab %}
{% tab Canvas %}

**Steps:**

1. [Create your Canvas]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/create_a_canvas/) using the Canvas wizard.
2. After you've set up your Canvas, add a step in the Canvas builder. Name your step something clear and meaningful.
3. Choose a [step schedule]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/time_based_canvas/#schedule-delay) and specify a delay as needed.
4. Filter your audience for this step as necessary. You can further refine the recipients of this step by specifying segments and adding additional filters. Audience options will be checked after the delay at the time messages are sent.
5. Choose your [advancement behavior]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/advancement/).
6. Choose any other messaging channels you want to pair with your message.

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Step 2: Compose your WhatsApp message

> To compose your message, select an approved WhatsApp template. 

Reviewer: Link to the templates step in the overview?

Author: Done

![][1]

If you added variables while creating the WhatsApp template in the Meta Business Manager, those variables will show up as blank spaces in the message composer. Replace these blank spaces with Liquid. If you opted to include images when building your template, upload or add images from the media library. 

![][2]

> Note that grey text can not be edited as they are part of the approved WhatsApp template. If you would like to make updates to the grey text, you must edit your template and get it reapproved. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that disabled text fields (highlighted gray) cannot be edited as they are part of the approved WhatsApp template. If you would like to make updates to the disabled text, you must edit your template and get it reapproved. 
```
